JAKE: Performance matters.
Remember that?
Remember when we
used to say that?
SURMA: Perf matters.
JAKE: Perf matters.
But only when it matters.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: There's another thing
I've been thinking about,
how people think about
optimization and performance
in general.
And I've been--
JAKE: Do they think about it?
SURMA: That's the thing.
So I feel like--
JAKE: [? I ?] [? know ?]
[? you ?] [? do. ?]
SURMA: At some point
on the web, you
you're bound to think about it.
Sometimes it is just too
easy to just do it wrong
and get horrible
performance out of it.
And people will
start yelling at you.
But I feel like people
fall into three camps
of how they think about it.
The first camp is
the snake oil camp.
Just apply snake oil
generously to areas.
Like [? you hurt, ?]
scrolling is slow.
I must change everything,
and it will get faster.
JAKE: Oh, right, yes, yes.
SURMA: It's that kind of person.
It's basically rules not
tools, where people just
hear something
like, you shouldn't
be using async functions
because they're slower
than [? functions. ?]
And they just hear rules.
They don't question
them and just use them.
That's obviously not a
good pattern to be in.
JAKE: I still see
code where, instead
of using string
concatenation, it's
an array of strings
that's joined,
because that was faster in '96.
But I still see code
getting published.
And it's like, you question
it in a code review.
And it's like, oh,
it's faster this way.
It's like, not for six years.
SURMA: And even if
it was, it's the--
we're going to get to that.
JAKE: OK, OK.
SURMA: So the second
tier I see-- and that's,
I want to say, the majority.
I don't want to call anyone
out or point fingers.
But I feel like it's what
I see the most on Twitter
is people who do benchmarks.
They look for numbers.
And if a number is smaller,
then that must be better.
And so they say like, oh,
if arrow functions are
smaller or for-of loops are
slower than old school for let
i, blah.
JAKE: We caught this recently in
the project we were working on.
I was using matrix
objects for like pendulum
effects with calculator.
Because it, for me,
read really well,
and I think the question came.
It was like, well, why don't
we just do this with maths?
And it's like, well, number
A, I don't know the maths.
But more importantly, it would
be harder to read afterwards.
So let's just use the
objects that are there,
and it's more maintainable.
It is probably slow--
well, probably slower.
SURMA: And that's the thing.
So people often tunnel on the
microbenchmarks, I feel like.
Like, oh, if you this
thing, it's slower.
And in Safari, it's even more
slower than in other browsers.
And I hear you, and
you're probably correct.
But I think that
people should strive
to be more in the third camp.
Because the answer,
usually, is it depends.
Your context is so important
on the performance side.
It always depends on what
you're talking about.
And it's always a trade-off.
JAKE: Exactly.
SURMA: So you always trade-off
readability or reusability or
scalability.
Or something is the trade-off
for switching the technique.
And you might gain performance
on a microbenchmark,
but it might not
actually help you.
JAKE: No, no it doesn't.
SURMA: So that's
two things there.
So on one hand, people
like to optimize things
that are not their bottleneck.
JAKE: Yeah, it's the inside of
the loop and not the outside
of the loop that's the problem.
SURMA: Exactly.
So the first rule
is always measure.
See if you're optimizing
and the time you
spend on optimizing that
bit is actually giving you
any notable advantages.
If I make my for
loop over 10 objects
faster by using a for-let
loop instead of a for-of loop,
sure, it might be faster.
We are talking microseconds.
And nobody's going to notice
or have any benefit from it.
So that's the first thing.
The other thing is readability
is very important, for example.
And I lost my train of thought.
JAKE: Readability is important.
SURMA: It is.
JAKE: And it's more important.
Performance matters.
Remember that?
Remember when we
used to say that?
SURMA: Perf matters, yeah.
JAKE: Perf matters.
But only when it matters.
SURMA: Oh, I got
my example back.
JAKE: If you're still
your frame budget--
SURMA: Exactly.
So thinking in budgets
is super helpful
because, as you
might know, I've been
looking into using workers more,
moving off the main thread.
And so when I hit
a button, I now
have to send a message to the
worker and do my logic there.
Because my logic is now in a
worker without the [? dong. ?]
The other thing, and then up
[? at ?] [? the ?] [INAUDIBLE]
back.
So if you measure that, yes,
the response to a button tap
will be longer, because
there's an actual round trip
and thread hops involved.
And so people, there were
some people who said,
you shouldn't do that.
It's slower.
JAKE: Right.
SURMA: And it's
not a good pattern
because it will make
your app slower.
And then you're like,
well, my reaction time
to the button press went
from eight milliseconds
to 60 milliseconds.
JAKE: Right, which is--
SURMA: And according--
if you use some guidance,
for example, Rail, I have 100
milliseconds to react to a tap.
So I'm very much still
within my budget.
So the question is, yes, it's
slower, but what did I gain?
JAKE: And you gained,
if it is expensive--
SURMA: For some reason,
yeah, if the worker gets
an expensive API
response to parse
or the device is super
slow and totally busy
or something, suddenly,
it's resilient to all
these little side effects
and will keep the [INAUDIBLE]
before the user can
scroll it and doesn't even
notice that something is
going on under the hood.
And also it gives
me a nice appearance
so that I can actually have
a separation of concerns
and don't have a tight coupling
between my UI framework
and my logic and the worker.
So there's many aspects to it.
And I feel like people need
to be more after the context.
So whenever somebody asks me,
which [? is ?] [? something ?]
if they're like, should
I be using this or this,
because I heard this was faster?
I was like, what's the context?
What are you trying to do?
And what are you working on?
Because that makes and
breaks the decision
that you're working on, right?
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: So double topic--
JAKE: So what's your conclusion?
SURMA: It depends.
JAKE: It depends.
Good, it's a good conclusion.
That is the correct
conclusion for most things.
OK.
SURMA: So?
Oh, we [INAUDIBLE] different.
That took me off guard.
JAKE: OK.
OK.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: OK.
SURMA: Well?
I had a university
lecturer who used to say--
we used to keep a tally of
how many times he said OK.
SURMA: That's annoying.
JAKE: And they would
string them together.
And that was the most satisfying
ones where they'd be like--
and if you look at this,
this is how it should be.
OK, OK, OK, so--
and we'd be like, we got
three, three in a row,
three times combo.
SURMA: Bingo.
JAKE: Foomp.